<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VIII: Authority of Governor-General von Schlichten</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Authority of Governor-General von Schlichten</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>There was fresh intelligence from Konkrook, by the time he returned to the telecast station. Mutiny had broken out there among the laborers and native troops, who outnumbered the Terrans and their Kragan mercenaries on Gongonk Island by five thousand to five hundred and fifteen hundred respectively. The attempt to relieve Jaikark‚Äôs palace had been called off before the relief-force could be sent; there was heavy and confused fighting all over the island, and most of the combat contragravity and about half the Kragan Rifles had had to be committed to defend the Company farms across the Channel, on the mainland, south of the city. There had also been an urgent call for help from Colonel Rodolfo MacKinnon, in command of Company troops at the Keegark Residency, and another from the Residency at Kwurk, one of the Free Cities on the eastern shore of Takkad Sea.</p>
			<p>He called Keegark; a girl, apparently one of the civilian telecast technicians, answered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe must have help, General von Schlichten,‚Äù she told him. ‚ÄúThe native troops, all but two hundred Kragans, have mutinied. They have everything here except Company House‚ÅÝ‚Äîdocks, airport, everything. We‚Äôre trying to hold out, but there are thousands of them. Our Takkad Native Infantry, soldiers of King Orgzild‚Äôs army, and townspeople. They all seem to have firearms.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat happened to Eric Blount and your Resident-Agent, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝLemoyne?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe don‚Äôt know. They were at the Palace, talking to King Orgzild. We‚Äôve tried to call the Palace, but we can‚Äôt get through, general, we must have help.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>A call came in, a few minutes later, from Krink, five hundred miles to the northeast across the mountains; the Resident-Agent there, one Francis Xavier Shapiro, reported rioting in the city and an attempted palace-revolution against King Jonkvank, and that the Residency was under attack. By way of variety, it was the army of King Jonkvank that had mutinied; the Sixth North Uller Native Infantry and the two companies of Zirk cavalry at Krink were still loyal, along with the Kragans.</p>
			<p>There was a pattern to all this. Von Schlichten stood staring at the big map, on the wall, showing the Takkad Sea area at the Equatorial Zone, and the country north of it to the pole, the area of Uller occupied by the Company. He was almost beginning to discern the underlying logic of the past half-hour‚Äôs events when Keaveney, the Skilk Resident, blundered into him in a half-daze.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSorry, general, didn‚Äôt see you.‚Äù His face was ashen, and his jowls sagged. Von Schlichten wondered if there could be another spectacle so woebegone as a back-slapping extrovert with the bottom knocked out of him. ‚ÄúMy God, it‚Äôs happening all over Uller! Not just here at Skilk; everywhere where we have a residency or a trading-station. Why, it‚Äôs the end of all of us!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs not quite that bad, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝKeaveney.‚Äù He looked at his watch. It was now nearly an hour since the native troops here at Skilk had mutinied. Insurrections like this usually succeeded or failed in the first hour. It was a little early to be certain, but he was beginning to suspect that this one hadn‚Äôt succeeded. ‚ÄúIf we all do our part, we‚Äôll come out of it all right,‚Äù he told Keaveney, more cheerfully than he felt, then turned to ask Brigadier-General Mordkovitz how the fighting was going at the native-troops barracks.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot badly, general. Colonel Jarman‚Äôs got some contragravity up and working. They blew out all four of the Tenth <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">N.U.N.I.</abbr>‚Äôs barracks; the Tenth and the Zirks are trying to defend the cavalry barracks. Some of our Kragans managed to slip around behind the cavalry stables. They‚Äôre leading out hipposaurs, and sniping at the rear of the cavalry barracks.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôll give us some cavalry of our own; a lot of these Kragans are good riders.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ How about the repair-shops and maintenance-yard and lorry-hangars? I don‚Äôt want these geeks getting hold of that equipment and using it against us.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúKormork‚Äôs outfit are trying to take back the lorry-hangars. Jarman‚Äôs got a couple of airjeeps and a combat-car helping them.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ä¶¬Ýwon‚Äôt be one of us left by this time tomorrow,‚Äù Keaveney was wailing, to Paula Quinton and another woman. ‚ÄúAnd the Company is finished!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôd better get him a drink, or a cup of coffee, general,‚Äù Mordkovitz suggested. ‚ÄúWith a knockout-drop in it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Colonel Cheng-Li, the Intelligence officer, seemed to have somewhat the same idea. He approached Keaveney and tried to quiet him. At the same time, a woman in black slacks and an orange sweater‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe one whose pursuers had been overrun by the Kragans at the beginning of the fighting‚ÅÝ‚Äîapproached von Schlichten.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGeneral, King Kankad‚Äôs calling,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúHe‚Äôs on the screen in booth four.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRight.‚Äù To avoid any possibility of misunderstanding, he slipped his geek-speaker into his mouth before entering the booth. Kankad‚Äôs face was looking out of the screen at him, with Phil Yamazaki, the telecast operator at Kankad‚Äôs Town, standing behind him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVon!‚Äù The Kragan spoke almost as though in physical pain. ‚ÄúWhat can I do to help? I have twenty thousand of my people here who are capable of bearing arms, all with firearms, but I have transport for only five hundred. Where shall I send them?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Von Schlichten thought quickly. Keegark was finished; the Residency stood in the middle of the city, surrounded by two hundred thousand of King Orgzild‚Äôs troops and subjects. Since Ullerans were bisexual, the total population, less the senile, crippled, and very young, was the military potential. Sending Kankad‚Äôs five hundred warriors and his meager contragravity there would be the same as shoveling them into a furnace. The people at Keegark would have to be written off, like the twenty Kragans at Jaikark‚Äôs palace.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSend them to Konkrook,‚Äù he decided. ‚ÄúThem M‚Äôzangwe‚Äôs in command, there; he‚Äôll need help to hold the Company farms. Maybe he can find additional transport for you. I‚Äôll call him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll send off what force I can, at once,‚Äù Kankad promised. ‚ÄúHow does it go with you at Skilk?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôre holding, so far,‚Äù he replied. ‚ÄúPaula is with me, here; she sends her friendship.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Captain Inez Malavez, the woman officer in charge of the station, put her head into the booth.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGeneral! Immediate-urgency message from Colonel O‚ÄôLeary,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúNative laborers from the mine-labor camp are pouring into the mine-equipment park. Colonel O‚ÄôLeary‚Äôs used all his rockets and <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">M.G.</abbr>-ammunition trying to stop them.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCall you back, later,‚Äù von Schlichten told Kankad. ‚ÄúI‚Äôll see what Them M‚Äôzangwe can do about transport; get what force you can started for Konkrook at once.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He left the booth, removing his geek-speaker. ‚ÄúBarney!‚Äù he called. ‚ÄúGeneral Mordkovitz! Who‚Äôs the ranking officer in direct contact with the Eighteenth Rifles? Major Falkenberg?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs right.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, tell him to get as many of his Kragans as he can spare down to the equipment-park.‚Äù He turned to Inez Malavez. ‚ÄúYou call Jarman; tell him what O‚ÄôLeary reported, and tell him to get cracking on it. Tell him not to let those geeks get any of that equipment onto contragravity; knock it down as fast as they try to lift out with it. And tell him to see what he can do in the way of troop-carriers or lorries, to get Falkenberg‚Äôs Rifles to the equipment-park.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ How‚Äôs business at the lorry-hangars and maintenance-yard?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúKormork‚Äôs still working on that,‚Äù the girl captain told him. ‚ÄúNothing definite, yet.‚Äù</p>
			<p>In one corner of the big room, somebody had thumbtacked a ten-foot-square map of the Company area to the floor. Paula Quinton and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJules Keaveney were on their knees beside it, pushing out handfuls of little pink and white pills that somebody had brought in two bottles from the dispensary across the road, each using a billiard-bridge. The girl in the orange sweater had a handful of scribbled notes, and was telling them where to push the pills. There were other objects on the map, too‚ÅÝ‚Äîpistol-cartridges, and cigarettes, and foil-wrapped food-concentrate wafers. Paula, seeing him, straightened.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe pink are ours, general,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúThe white are the geeks.‚Äù Von Schlichten suppressed a grin; that was the second time he‚Äôd heard her use that word, this evening. ‚ÄúThe cigarettes are airjeeps, the cartridges are combat-cars, and the wafers are lorries or troop-carriers.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot exactly regulation map-markers, but I‚Äôve seen stranger things used.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ Captain Malavez!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir?‚Äù The girl captain, rushing past, her hands full of teleprint-sheets, stopped in mid-stride.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat we need,‚Äù he told her, ‚Äúis a big <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">TV</abbr>-screen, and a pickup mounted on some sort of a contragravity vehicle at about two to five thousand feet directly overhead, to give us an image of the whole area. Can do?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCan try, sir. We have an eight-foot circular screen that ought to do all right for two thousand feet. I‚Äôll implement that at once.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Going into a temporarily idle telecast booth, he called Konkrook. First he spoke to a civilian who chewed a dead cigar, and then he got Themistocles M‚Äôzangwe on the screen.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow is it, now?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGetting a little better,‚Äù the Graeco-African replied. ‚ÄúHalf an hour ago, we were shooting geeks out the windows, here; now we have them contained between the spaceport and the native-troops and labor barracks, and down the east side of the island to the farms. We have the wire around the farms on the island electrified, and we‚Äôre using almost all our combat contragravity to keep the farms on the mainland clear.‚Äù He hesitated for a moment. ‚ÄúDid you hear about Eric and Lemoyne?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Von Schlichten shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe just got a call from Rodolfo MacKinnon. He took a couple of prisoners and made them talk. The whole party that were at Orgzild‚Äôs palace were massacred. Some of them were lucky enough to get killed fighting. The geeks took Eric and Hendrik alive; rolled them in a puddle of thermoconcentrate fuel and set fire to them. When we can spare the contragravity, we‚Äôre going to drop something on the Kee-geek embassy, over in town.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, that was what I wanted to call you about‚ÅÝ‚Äîcontragravity.‚Äù He told M‚Äôzangwe about King Kankad‚Äôs offer. ‚ÄúHis crowd ought to be coming in in a couple of hours. What can you scrape up to send to Kankad‚Äôs Town to airlift Kragans in?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, we have three hundred-and-fifty-foot gun-cutters, one 90¬Ý<abbr>mm</abbr> gun apiece. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Elmoran</i>, the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Gaucho</i>, and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bushranger</i>. But they‚Äôre not much as transports, and we need them here pretty badly. Then, we have five fertilizer and charcoal scows, and a lot of heavy transport lorries, and two one-eighty-foot pickup boats.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow about the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Piet Joubert</i>?‚Äù von Schlichten asked. ‚ÄúShe was due in Konkrook from the east about 13:00 today, wasn‚Äôt she?‚Äù</p>
			<p>M‚Äôzangwe swore. ‚ÄúShe got in, all right. But the geeks boarded her at the dock, within twenty minutes after things started. They tried to lift out with her, and the Channel Battery shot her down into Konkrook Channel, off the Fifty Sixth Street docks.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, you couldn‚Äôt let the geeks have her, to use against us. What do you hear from the other ships?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Procyon</i>‚Äôs at Grank; we haven‚Äôt had any reports of any kind from there, which doesn‚Äôt look so good. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Northern Lights</i> is at Grank, too. The <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Oom Paul Kruger</i> should have been at Bwork, in the east, when the gun went off. And the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Jan Smuts</i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship" xml:lang="af">Christiaan De¬ÝWett</i> were both at Keegark; we can assume Orgzild has both of them.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right. I‚Äôm sending <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Aldebaran</i> to Kankad‚Äôs, to pick up more reinforcements for you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe can use them! And with <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Aldebaran</i>, we ought to be able to take the offensive against the city by this time tomorrow. Anything else?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot at the moment. I‚Äôll see about getting <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Aldebaran</i> sent off, now.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Leaving the booth, he heard, above the clatter of communications-machines and hubbub of voices, Jules Keaveney arguing contentiously. Evidently Colonel Cheng-Li‚Äôs efforts to drag the Resident out of his despondency had been an excessive success.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut it‚Äôs crazy! Not just here; everywhere on Uller!‚Äù Keaveney was saying. ‚ÄúHow did they do it? They have no telecast equipment.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou have me stopped, Jules,‚Äù Mordkovitz was replying. ‚ÄúI know a lot of rich geeks have receiving sets, but no sending sets.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The pattern that had been tantalizing von Schlichten took visible shape in his mind. For a moment, he shelved the matter of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Aldebaran</i>.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThey didn‚Äôt need sending equipment, Barney,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúThey used ours.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat do you mean?‚Äù Keaveney challenged.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLook what happened. Sid Harrington was poisoned in Konkrook. The news, of course, was sent out at once, as the geeks knew it would be, to every residency and trading-station on Uller, and that was the signal they‚Äôd agreed upon, probably months in advance. All they had to do was have that geek servant put poison in Harrington‚Äôs whiskey, and we did the rest.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, what was our intelligence doing‚ÅÝ‚Äîsleeping?‚Äù Keaveney demanded angrily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, they were writing reports for your civil administration blokes to stuff in the wastebasket, and being called mailed-fist-and-rattling-saber alarmists for their pains.‚Äù He turned away from Keaveney. ‚ÄúBarney, where‚Äôs Dirk Prinsloo?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAboard his ship. He hitched a ride to the airport with Jarman, when he was here picking up aircrews.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCall him. Tell him to take the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Aldebaran</i> to Kankad‚Äôs Town, at once; as soon as he arrives there, which ought to be about 11:00, he‚Äôs to pick up all the Kragans he can pack aboard and take them to Konkrook. From then on, he‚Äôll be under Them M‚Äôzangwe‚Äôs orders.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTo Konkrook?‚Äù Keaveney fairly howled. ‚ÄúAre you nuts? Don‚Äôt you think we need reinforcements here, too?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, I do. I‚Äôm going to try to get them,‚Äù von Schlichten told him. ‚ÄúNow pipe down and get out of people‚Äôs way.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He crossed the room, to where two Kragans, a male sergeant, and the ubiquitous girl in the orange sweater were struggling to get a big circular <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">TV</abbr>-screen up, then turned to look at the situation-map. A girl tech-sergeant was keeping Paula Quinton and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝJules Keaveney informed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúStart pushing geeks out of the Fifth Zirk Cavalry barracks,‚Äù the sergeant was saying. ‚ÄúThe one at the north end, and the one next to it; they‚Äôre both on fire, now.‚Äù She tossed a slip into the wastebasket beside her and glanced at the next slip. ‚ÄúAnd more pink pills back of the barracks and stables, and move them a little to the northwest; Kragans as skirmishers, to intercept geeks trying to slip away from the cavalry barracks.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThough why we want to do that, I don‚Äôt know,‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝKeaveney said, pushing out a handful of pink pills with her billiard-bridge. ‚ÄúLet them go, and good riddance!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI never did like this bridge-of-silver-for-a-fleeing-enemy idea,‚Äù Paula Quinton said, evicting token-mutineers from the two northern barracks. ‚ÄúThere‚Äôs usually two-way traffic on bridges. Kill them here and we won‚Äôt have to worry about keeping them out.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Of course, it was easy to be bloodthirsty about pink pills and white pills. Once, on a three-months‚Äô reaction-drive voyage from Yggdrasill to Loki, he had taught a couple of professors of extraterrestrial zoology to play kriegspiel, and before the end of the trip, he was being horrified by the callous disregard they showed for casualties. But little Paula had the right idea; dead enemies don‚Äôt hit back.</p>
			<p>A young Kragan with his lower left arm in a sling and a daub of antiseptic plaster over the back of his head came up and gave him a radioprint slip. Guido Karamessinis, the Resident-Agent at Grank, had reported, at last. The city, he said, was quiet, but King Yoorkerk‚Äôs troops had seized the Company airport and docks, taken the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Procyon</i> and the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Northern Lights</i> and put guards aboard them, and were surrounding the Residency. He wanted to know what to do.</p>
			<p>Von Schlichten managed to get him on the screen, after a while.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt looks as though Yoorkerk‚Äôs trying to play both sides at once,‚Äù he told the Grank Resident. ‚ÄúIf the rebellion‚Äôs put down, he‚Äôll come forward as your friend and protector; if we‚Äôre wiped out elsewhere, he‚Äôll yell ‚Äò<em xml:lang="x-ulleran">Znidd suddabit!</em>‚Äô and swamp you. Don‚Äôt antagonize him; we can‚Äôt afford to fight this war on any more fronts than we are now. We‚Äôll try to do something to get you unfrozen, before long.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He called Krink again. A girl with red-gold hair and a dusting of freckles across her nose answered.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow are you making out?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo far, fine, general. We‚Äôre in complete control of the Company area, and all our native troops, not just the Kragans, are with us. Jonkvank‚Äôs pushed the mutineers out of his palace, and we‚Äôre keeping open a couple of streets between there and here. We airlifted all our Kragans and half the Sixth <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">N.U.N.I.</abbr> to the Palace, and we have the Zirks patrolling the streets on ‚Äôsaurback. Now, we have our lorries and troop-carriers out picking up elements of Jonkvank‚Äôs loyal troops outside town.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôs doing the rioting, then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She named three of Jonkvank‚Äôs regiments. ‚ÄúAnd the city hoodlums, and priests from the temples of one sect that followed Rakkeed, and Skilkan fifth columnists. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝShapiro can give you the details. Shall I call him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNever mind. He‚Äôs probably busy, he‚Äôs not as easy on the eyes as you are, and you‚Äôre doing all right.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ How long do you think it‚Äôd take, with the equipment you have, to airlift all of Jonkvank‚Äôs loyal troops into the city?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot before this time tomorrow.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right. Are you in radio communication with Jonkvank now?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFull telecast, audiovisual,‚Äù the girl replied. ‚ÄúJust a minute, general.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He put in his geek-speaker. The screen exploded into multicolored light, then cleared. Within a few minutes, a saurian Ulleran face was looking out of it at him‚ÅÝ‚Äîa harsh-lined, elderly face, with an old scar, quartz-crusted, along one side.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYour Majesty,‚Äù von Schlichten greeted him.</p>
			<p>Jonkvank pronounced something intended to correspond to von Schlichten‚Äôs name. ‚ÄúWe have image-met under sad circumstances, general,‚Äù he said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSad for both of us, King Jonkvank; we must help one another. I am told that your soldiers in Krink have risen against you, and that your loyal troops are far from the city.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. That was the work of my War Minister, Hurkkurk, who was in the pay of King Firkked of Skilk, may Jeels devour him alive! I have Hurkkurk‚Äôs head here somewhere, if you want to see it, but that will not bring my loyal soldiers to Krink any sooner.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDead traitors‚Äô heads do not interest me, King Jonkvank,‚Äù von Schlichten replied, in what he estimated that the Krinkan king would interpret as a tone of cold-blooded cruelty. ‚ÄúThere are too many traitors‚Äô heads still on traitors‚Äô shoulders.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ What regiments are loyal to you, and where are they now?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Jonkvank began naming regiments and locating them, all at minor provincial towns at least a hundred miles from Krink.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHurkkurk did his work well; I‚Äôm afraid you killed him too mercifully,‚Äù von Schlichten said. ‚ÄúWell, I‚Äôm sending the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Northern Star</i> to Krink. She can only bring in one regiment at a trip, the way they‚Äôre scattered; which one do you want first?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Jonkvank‚Äôs mouth, until now compressed grimly, parted in a gleaming smile. He made an exclamation of pleasure which sounded rather like a boy running along a picket fence with a stick.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood, general! Good!‚Äù he cried. ‚ÄúThe first should be the regiment Murderers, at Furnk; they all have rifles like your soldiers. Have them brought to the Great Square, at the Palace here. And then, the regiment Fear-Makers, at Jeelznidd, and the regiment Corpse-Reapers, at.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLet that go until the Murderers are in,‚Äù von Schlichten advised. ‚ÄúThey‚Äôre at Furnk, you say? I‚Äôll send the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Northern Star</i> there, directly.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, good, general! I will not soon forget this! And as soon as the work is finished here, I will send soldiers to help you at Skilk. There shall be a great pile of the heads of those who had part in this wickedness, both here and there!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood. Now, if you will pardon me, I‚Äôll go to give the necessary orders.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>As he left the booth, he saw Hideyoshi O‚ÄôLeary in front of the situation-map, and hailed him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHarry and Hassan are getting the car re-ammoed; they dropped me off here. Want to come up with us and see the show?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, I want you to go to Krink, as soon as Harry brings the car here again.‚Äù He told O‚ÄôLeary what he intended doing. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôll probably have to go around ahead of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Star</i> and alert these regiments. And as soon as things stabilize at Krink, prod Jonkvank into airlifting troops here. You‚Äôre authorized, in my name, to promise Jonkvank that he can assume political control at Skilk, after we‚Äôve stuffed Firkked‚Äôs head in the dustbin.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Jules Keaveney, who always seemed to be where he wasn‚Äôt wanted, heard that and fairly screamed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGeneral von Schlichten! That is a political decision! You have no authority to make promises like that; that is a matter for the Governor-General, at least!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, as of now, and until a successor to Sid Harrington can be sent here from Terra, I‚Äôm Governor-General,‚Äù von Schlichten told him, mentally thanking Keaveney for reminding him of the necessity for such a step. ‚ÄúCaptain Malavez! You will send out an all-station telecast, immediately: Military Commander-in-Chief Carlos von Schlichten, being informed of the deaths of both Governor-General Harrington and Lieutenant-Governor Blount, assumes the duties of Governor-General, as of 00:01 today.‚Äù He turned to Keaveney. ‚ÄúDoes that satisfy you?‚Äù he asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, it doesn‚Äôt. You have no authority to assume a civil position of any sort, let alone the very highest position.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>Von Schlichten unbuttoned his holster and took out his authority, letting Keaveney look into the muzzle of it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHere it is,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúIf you‚Äôre wise, don‚Äôt make me appeal to it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Keaveney shrugged. ‚ÄúI can‚Äôt argue with that,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúBut I don‚Äôt fancy the Uller Company is going to be impressed by it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe Uller Company,‚Äù von Schlichten replied, ‚Äúis six and a half parsecs away. It takes a ship six months to get from here to Terra, and another six months to get back. A radio message takes a little over twenty-one years, each way.‚Äù He holstered the pistol again. ‚ÄúYou were bitching about how we needed reinforcements, a while ago. Well, here‚Äôs where we have to reverse Clausewitz and use politics as an extension by other means of war.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat brings up another question, general,‚Äù one of Keaveney‚Äôs subordinates said. ‚ÄúCan we hold out long enough for help to get here from Terra?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBy the time help could reach us from Terra,‚Äù von Schlichten replied, ‚Äúwe‚Äôll either have this revolt crushed, or there won‚Äôt be a live Terran left on Uller.‚Äù He felt a brief sadistic pleasure as he watched Keaveney‚Äôs face sag in horror. ‚ÄúWhat do you think we‚Äôll live on, for a year?‚Äù he asked. ‚ÄúOn this planet, there‚Äôs not more than a three months‚Äô supply of any sort of food a human can eat. And the ships that‚Äôll be coming in until word of our plight can get to Terra won‚Äôt bring enough to keep us going. We need the farms and livestock and the animal-tissue culture plant at Konkrook, and the farms at Krink and on the plateau back of Skilk, and we need peace and native labor to work them.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Nobody seemed to have anything to say after that, for a while. Then Keaveney suggested that the next ship was due in from Niflheim in three months, and that it could be used to evacuate all the Terrans on Uller.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd I‚Äôll personally shoot any able-bodied Terran who tries to board that ship,‚Äù von Schlichten promised. ‚ÄúGet this through your heads, all of you. We are going to break this rebellion, and we are going to hold Uller for the Company and the Terran Federation.‚Äù He looked around him. ‚ÄúNow, get back to work, all of you,‚Äù he told the group that had formed around him and Keaveney. ‚ÄúMiss Quinton, you just heard me order my adjutant, Colonel O‚ÄôLeary, on detached duty to Krink. I want you to take over for him. You‚Äôll have rank and authority as colonel for the duration of this war.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She was thunderstruck. ‚ÄúBut I know absolutely nothing about military matters. There must be a hundred people here who are better qualified than I am.‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere are, and they all have jobs, and I‚Äôd have to find replacements for them, and replacements for the replacements. You won‚Äôt leave any vacancy to be filled. And you‚Äôll learn, fast enough.‚Äù He went over to the situation-map again, and looked at the arrangement of pink and white pills. ‚ÄúFirst of all, I want you to call Jarman, at the military airport, and have an airjeep and driver sent around here for me. I‚Äôm going up and have a look around. Barney, keep the show going while I‚Äôm out, and tell Colonel Quinton what it‚Äôs all about.‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
